Module 1: The Metal - Lab 01

Student: Nwachukwu Jesse
Objective: Validate the Docker Installation and Dissect the Execution Flow.

Step 1: The "Hello World"

In your terminal, run the following command. This is the "smoke test" for your infrastructure.

docker run hello-world


Step 2: Forensic Analysis of Output

You should see text output in your terminal. Let's break down exactly what happened, line by line.

Line A: "Unable to find image 'hello-world:latest' locally"

Concept: Image Caching.

What happened: The Daemon (dockerd) checked your local hard drive (specifically /var/lib/docker) for an image named hello-world.

Result: It wasn't there.

Why: This is a fresh install.

Line B: "latest: Pulling from library/hello-world"

Concept: The Tag.

Explanation: You didn't specify a version (e.g., hello-world:v1), so Docker assumed you meant latest. This is the default tag.

Line C: "c1ec31eb5944: Pull complete"

Concept: Layers.

Explanation: Docker images are not single files; they are stacks of layers (like a cake). This image is tiny, so it only has one layer with the ID ending in 5944.

Why this matters: If you download a huge image (like PyTorch) and later download a slightly different version, Docker will only download the new layers, saving you massive bandwidth.

Line D: "Digest: sha256:..."

Concept: Content Addressable Storage.

Explanation: This is the cryptographic signature of the image. It guarantees that the code you downloaded is exactly bit-for-bit what the developer published. No man-in-the-middle attacks.

Line E: "Hello from Docker!"

Concept: Standard Output (stdout).

Explanation: The container successfully started!

The Daemon created a new set of Namespaces (isolation).

It set up Cgroups (limits).

It executed the binary file inside the image.

That binary printed this text to stdout.

The Daemon streamed that text back to your Client.

The process finished, and the container Exited (stopped).

Step 3: Verify the Aftermath

Now that the container has run and stopped, where did it go?

Run this command to see running containers:

- docker ps

Result: It should be empty. Why? Because hello-world finished its job and shut down.

Now, run this command to see all containers (including dead ones):

- docker ps -a


Result: You should see one entry.

CONTAINER ID: A random hash (e.g., a1b2c3d4).

IMAGE: hello-world.

STATUS: Exited (0).

Step 4: The Cleanup (Garbage Collection)

We don't want dead containers cluttering your billionaire workstation.

Run this to clean up the specific container (replace [CONTAINER_ID] with the ID you saw above):

- docker rm [CONTAINER_ID]


Or, run the nuclear option to delete all stopped containers (Use with caution in production!):

- docker container prune


